Evaluating 19 article(s) with model=sonnet, parallel=4…

  ✓ market/ai-thesis/index.html — pass:5 warn:3 fail:0
  ✓ market/economic-cycles/index.html — pass:4 warn:4 fail:0
  ✓ market/capital-rotation/index.html — pass:7 warn:1 fail:0
  ✓ market/cash-as-weapon/index.html — pass:6 warn:2 fail:0
  ✓ market/evaluating-businesses/index.html — pass:5 warn:3 fail:0
  ✓ market/india-consumption/index.html — pass:6 warn:2 fail:0
  ✓ market/global-portfolio/index.html — pass:5 warn:3 fail:0
  ✓ market/investor-psychology/index.html — pass:4 warn:4 fail:0
  ✓ market/margin-of-safety/index.html — pass:5 warn:3 fail:0
  ✓ market/macro-first/index.html — pass:6 warn:2 fail:0
  ✓ market/options-insurance/index.html — pass:7 warn:1 fail:0
  ✓ market/position-sizing/index.html — pass:6 warn:2 fail:0
  ✓ market/real-returns/index.html — pass:5 warn:3 fail:0
  ✗ market/sector-cycles/index.html — JSONDecodeError: Expecting ',' delimiter: line 6 column 336 (char 2371)
  ✓ market/sell-discipline/index.html — pass:5 warn:3 fail:0
  ✓ market/what-moves-prices/index.html — pass:8 warn:0 fail:0
  ✓ market/sideways-markets/index.html — pass:6 warn:2 fail:0
  ✓ market/wealth-staircase/index.html — pass:4 warn:4 fail:0
  ✓ insurance/actuarial-pricing/index.html — pass:3 warn:5 fail:0

! insurance/actuarial-pricing/index.html  (3 pass, 5 warn, 0 fail · 97.7s)
  ! [M1]  The first 200 words establish a concrete pooling example (₹80,000 cow, 3.5% mortality, ₹2,800 premium) and land the line 'Individual risk is catastrophic. Pooled risk is manageable.' — but that is insurance-101, not the article's actual thesis. The real one-thing (gross premium = layered buildup of 
        → Open with the counterintuitive claim: 'A 3.5% mortality rate becomes a 7% premium rate by the time it reaches the farmer — here is exactly where each percentage point goes.' That is the thing the article proves; state it in the first paragraph.
  ✓ [M2]  The pool simulator makes variance visceral in a way prose cannot; the LLN convergence chart would lose its entire argument if removed; the rating factor explorer shows compounding that is genuinely hard to intuit from a list of bullets. The full premium waterfall in Section VII is the payoff widget 
  ! [M3]  'Individual risk is catastrophic. Pooled risk is manageable' is the first screen's headline claim. Any reader who passed high-school economics already knows this. Nothing on the first screen contradicts a belief the reader holds or reveals a number they could not have guessed.
        → Lead with the gap that surprises: 'A 3.5% mortality rate costs the farmer ₹2,800 in expected losses — but the insurer charges ₹5,400. This article is about the ₹2,600 difference.' That is surprising and earns the tutorial that follows.
  ! [M4]  The risk loading histogram (Section VI) simultaneously teaches: why averages are dangerous, what the ruin probability means, and how adding a risk load shifts the distribution — three distinct concepts, each with its own output stat. The Book Simulator (Section VIII) similarly displays loss ratio, c
        → Split Section VI's widget into two: one that shows the distribution of outcomes (pure variance argument) and a separate toggle that shows how risk loading shifts the ruin threshold. One idea per widget.
  ! [M5]  'You' appears throughout ('Try it yourself', 'Play with the calculator below', 'Watch how the pool absorbs individual disasters') but 'I' is entirely absent. The single opinionated line — 'The art of insurance pricing is not calculating the average' — is presented as received wisdom, not the author'
        → Add one sentence of genuine first-person opinion, e.g. 'What surprised me most when I first built this model was how brutally the expense ratio dominates at small sum-insured sizes — the ₹5,000 policy and the ₹50,000 policy cost almost the same to service.'
  ✓ [M6]  Every section has grounded specifics: GIC Re's mandatory 4% cession, IRDAI's ₹100 crore minimum capital and 1.5x solvency requirement, Bühlmann's 1967 paper, k=1,082, Nandi AI, BrainWired, PsiBorg named by name, 50+ recognized cattle breeds, fraud-inflated loss ratios of 130%+.
  ✓ [M7]  Two substantive sidenotes: Section II ('LLN ≠ CLT — the CLT is why you hold capital, not just why you can price') and Section IX ('Bühlmann credibility is empirical Bayes — Z is just the weight of data vs. prior'). Both flag a regime where the simplified framing misleads.
  ! [M8]  The article covers pooling, LLN, pure premium, multiplicative rating factors, expense loading, risk loading, the full buildup formula, loss ratios, credibility theory, and domain-specific fraud/adverse-selection challenges across 10 sections. A non-expert friend finishing this would be able to expla
        → Decide what the article proves and cut to it: if the thesis is 'the premium waterfall,' remove or shrink the credibility and LLN sections to supporting footnotes. If the thesis is 'livestock insurance is broken because of adverse selection and no data,' everything before Section IX is preamble. Pick
  ▸ The article is technically rigorous, beautifully specific (real company names, real regulatory thresholds, real formulas), and the widgets largely earn their place. The core weakness is structural: it is a comprehensive survey course rather than a single-thesis argument, so it fails the two-sentence teachback test and the 'first screen surprises' test. Tighten the thesis to one claim, open with the counterintuitive number that proves it, and trim everything that does not serve that claim — the bones are strong enough to support a much tighter piece.

! market/ai-thesis/index.html  (5 pass, 3 warn, 0 fail · 64.9s)
  ✓ [M1]  The blockquote 'There is no AI bubble. This is a race for survival. When people and countries get desperate, there is no end to spending.' appears in Section I, well within the first 200 words, anchored by 'these people cannot differentiate between drawdowns and bubbles.'
  ! [M2]  There are zero interactive widgets in this article — the script block is explicitly omitted ('<!-- script omitted -->'). The delete test is vacuously satisfied but the absence means the article cannot leverage interactivity to prove anything a static blog post could not.
        → Add at least one canvas widget that proves the core thesis interactively — e.g., a draggable capex-to-FCF ratio slider showing which hyperscalers are self-funded vs. externally dependent, or a dotcom-vs-AI spending trajectory comparison the reader can manipulate.
  ! [M3]  'The AI Supercycle Is Not a Bubble' is a widely circulated thesis in financial media; the opening paragraphs describe the debate as already ubiquitous ('You hear it everywhere'). The genuinely surprising quantitative claim — 'If you take AI out [of US GDP], it becomes negative' — is buried in Sectio
        → Open with the surprising, specific, falsifiable claim (the GDP decomposition or the capex-to-FCF ratio) rather than the meta-commentary about people who cry bubble — that framing assumes the reader already knows the debate.
  ✓ [M4]  No widgets exist, so the one-concept-per-widget rule cannot be violated. This is a vacuous pass; the underlying problem is captured in M2.
  ✓ [M5]  'I have roughly 80% of my entire stock portfolio in AI-related positions. I have close to $300,000 USD riding on Meta alone. I am not writing this from the sidelines offering opinions. I am backing every word with real money.' Voice is unusually strong and personal throughout all nine sections.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section contains named companies with specific figures: Meta $100B 2026 capex, Amazon Q4 2025 revenue $213.39B, AWS 24% growth, NVIDIA operating margin above 60%, Meta 3-year EPS CAGR 20.7%, Meta stock purchased at $590–595, $300K position size. Specificity is a consistent strength.
  ✓ [M7]  Two explicit 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes: one in Section II addresses the bear case (revenue per capex dollar falling faster than expected, with a specific hedge recommendation), and one in Section III addresses circular financing historical precedent with the Cisco/Lucent/Nortel 1999 parallel and 
  ! [M8]  The article spans nine sections covering geopolitics, a five-layer value chain, portfolio sizing tables, drawdown management strategies, options hedging mechanics, and a seven-point action plan. A non-expert could repeat 'AI is a survival race, not a bubble,' but the density of secondary theses (PE 
        → Consider splitting the investment-mechanics sections (VII, VIII, IX) into a companion article so the core thesis article ends at Section VI — proving the one-thing and stopping, per the rulebook's guidance.
  ▸ The article's editorial voice, specificity, and honest caveats are genuinely strong — it reads as the work of someone with real skin in the game, not a content farm summary. Its fundamental problem as an interactive explainer is structural: there are no widgets, making it indistinguishable from a long-form Substack post, and the nine-section scope dilutes the stated one-thing into a comprehensive investment primer. The surprising quantitative hook (GDP minus AI goes negative) is buried in Section III rather than leading the piece.

! market/capital-rotation/index.html  (7 pass, 1 warn, 0 fail · 97.8s)
  ✓ [M1]  The one-thing is stated in the opening sentence: 'India is a trading market, not an investing market,' immediately backed by 'Over the eighteen months ending mid-2025, broad-market Indian investors made roughly zero percent in nominal terms.' Both the claim and the arithmetic proof land well within 
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 makes the regime trade-off visceral (drawdown climbs faster than return as you slide right — prose can't replicate this); Widget 2 generates paths that let the reader watch the gap open between rotator and passive P&L; Widget 3 turns the four-quadrant map from a table into a navigable objec
  ✓ [M3]  The opening line directly challenges the dominant retail narrative ('the entire SIP-distribution complex will tell you that you're wrong') and the second paragraph delivers a specific, falsifiable shock: 18 months of zero nominal return plus negative real return after rupee drag. For the target audi
  ✓ [M4]  Widget 1 teaches one concept (how allocation weights shift with regime). Widget 2 teaches one concept (rotator P&L vs. passive P&L on a range-bound price path). Widget 3 teaches one concept (which equity style the yield-curve quadrant favours). No widget tries to carry more than its single idea.
  ✓ [M5]  First-person voice is strong and sustained: 'I was structurally bearish on long-term IT margins,' 'My own current split: 70% equities, 25% real estate, 5% crypto,' 'I deployed that reserve.' The 'you' is equally present: 'You have a portfolio reason to ignore them,' 'you sell stocks because the capi
  ✓ [M6]  Every section contains proper nouns, exact figures, and named dates: PNB at 'PE around 18,' Nifty IT 'corrected 35% from peak by mid-2025,' 'Nifty 50 … roughly 21,000 to 26,650,' '25,000/month SIP at 12.5% for 40 years builds 28 crore,' 'US short rate is around 5.25-5.50%, the 10Y near 4.20%.' Gener
  ✓ [M7]  Six 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes appear across sections I through VII, each admitting a genuine limit: the US buy-and-hold comparison is overstated (Section I), the widget numbers are not backtested (Section III), buy-and-hold wins on breakout paths (Section IV), the yield curve is necessary but not
  ! [M8]  The one-thing is stated clearly and repeated in callout boxes, but nine sections and 24 minutes of reading — including detailed portfolio sizing tiers, tax mechanics, and a six-layer construction framework — create a real risk that a non-expert leaves remembering the vocabulary ('rotation,' 'regime'
        → Add a 3-sentence TL;DR box immediately after the hero (before the TOC) that states the one-thing and the core mechanism in plain language, so a reader who skims can still teach it back.
  ▸ This is a high-quality article with a clear one-thing, strong personal voice, exceptional specificity, and three widgets that all pass the delete test. The main risk is length-driven dilution: at 24 minutes and nine sections the tactical depth (portfolio layers, tax treatment, sizing tiers) can bury the core mechanism for a non-expert reader. A brief TL;DR upfront would close the only real gap.

! market/cash-as-weapon/index.html  (6 pass, 2 warn, 0 fail · 143.6s)
  ✓ [M1]  By word ~200, the article has already named the problem ('running out of money to buy the dip') and its solution ('Investors who had held a 20–25% cash position were buying Nifty 50 at support…The ones who were 100% invested…watching unrealized gains evaporate'). The thesis is proved by example befo
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 quantifies the optionality claim the formula in Section II can only gesture at; Widget 2 shows the regime-dependency of the 20% rule that prose alone cannot resolve; Widget 3 stress-tests the 30-year path under a 2008-style scenario prose cannot demonstrate. Each carries an argument step th
  ✓ [M3]  The opening reframes 'always be invested' — the dominant message Indian retail investors receive — as structurally conflicted marketing advice, then immediately backs it with the PPFAS/Quant/SBI MF cash-pile data. For the stated audience this is genuinely counterintuitive, not a restatement of what 
  ! [M4]  Widget 3 conflates two distinct questions: (a) which cash allocation wins on terminal value, and (b) how sensitive that answer is to path randomness. The regime toggle ('normal' vs '2008-style') adds a third axis. A reader adjusting all three dimensions simultaneously is unlikely to leave with one c
        → Split Widget 3 into separate panels or remove the seed slider and let the widget answer only 'does the 20% rule win in a crisis?' Limit the demo to one testable claim.
  ✓ [M5]  'I have seen this play out hundreds of times.' / 'This is the framework I personally follow.' / 'Since 2022 I have been buying real estate aggressively.' The 'you' is equally present: 'If the market falls 20% tomorrow, do you have cash to buy?' Voice is thick throughout, not decorative.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section contains named entities and hard numbers: Section II gives five AMC cash balances with rupee amounts and a July 2024 date; Section VI names the Yamaha NCR SME IPO (₹12 crore raised, ₹4,700 crore bids) and MamaEarth's ₹2,000 crore cap jump; Section IX cites RBI's ₹60,000 crore OMO and t
  ✓ [M7]  Two explicitly marked sidenotes: Section II admits the simulation uses a fixed 60%-deployment rule and ignores behavioural edge; Section V warns that institutional cash can signal sector rotation or redemptions rather than defensive positioning. Footnote 3 additionally flags that gold/BTC correlatio
  ! [M8]  The article covers nine chapters across five distinct frameworks — the optionality formula, the 20% valuation-tiered rule, a four-tranche deployment protocol, the Step-Down SIP mechanic, and cross-asset dry-powder sourcing. A non-expert finishing the 26-minute read is more likely to retain 'have som
        → Add a single closing 'the one thing' sentence in Section IX that collapses the argument to its core: e.g., 'Holding 20% in liquid funds costs you ~2% in calm years and earns you 5–10% at every correction — the math only runs in one direction.' Give the reader the two-sentence version explicitly.
  ▸ A well-constructed, voice-heavy article with genuine specificity and honest sidenotes that admit model limits — the institutional cash-pile data and the PPFAS/Buffett comparisons are the strongest sections. The main weaknesses are architectural: Widget 3 is trying to prove too many things at once, and the nine-chapter scope leaves no single distilled takeaway for the non-expert to carry out. Tightening Widget 3 to one question and adding an explicit two-sentence summary in the action plan section would bring this to a clean ship.

! market/economic-cycles/index.html  (4 pass, 4 warn, 0 fail · 85.7s)
  ! [M1]  The hero subtitle reads 'Five stages of markets, three types of falls, and a portfolio that survives all of them' — that's three things, not one. The first 200 words of Section I establish that investors can't name the cycle stages, but the singular surprising claim ('knowing your phase determines e
        → Replace the hero subtitle with the one-thing stated as a surprise: e.g. 'Knowing which of five phases you're in beats stock selection every time — and right now most investors are in the most mis-played phase of all.' Then open Section I with that claim rather than building to it.
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 (dial → asset rotation) directly demonstrates the prose claim that 'the question is never which asset class is best, only where on the dial are we.' Widget 2 proves the non-linear recovery relationship the prose argues for. Widget 3 makes the composite-weighting argument interactive. Removi
  ! [M3]  The opening question — 'Every economy on the planet runs through the same five stages' — describes a framework most financially literate readers have vaguely heard of. The genuinely surprising insight (a 40% fall takes 30× longer to recover than a 10% fall, or that consolidation exits are where most
        → Open with the sharpest counter-intuitive fact — e.g. the non-linear recovery asymmetry or the 2020 V-shape being the only such recovery since WWII — and let the five-stage framework be the explanation for it, not the introduction.
  ! [M4]  Widget 3 has four simultaneously-live readout cells: composite score, regime label, closest historical analogue, and 12-month equity bias. That's four outputs from one widget, each representing a distinct concept (measurement, classification, historical pattern-matching, portfolio action).
        → Strip Widget 3 to composite score + regime only; move the historical analogue and equity-bias readouts to the prose or a separate follow-up widget. One concept per widget: 'how to combine four indicators into one risk signal.'
  ✓ [M5]  'The framework I use is thirds' (Section VII) and 'Stop. Breathe.' (Section IV) are representative of consistent first-person opinion and direct second-person address throughout. The author's view on current positioning ('The honest answer in 2025–2026: late consolidation') is stated plainly as the 
  ✓ [M6]  Every section contains concrete anchors: 'Nifty fell from 12,400 to 7,500 in roughly one month' (I), 'MercadoLibre — 30%+ revenue CAGR for thirty consecutive quarters' (II), 'Meta dropped from $384 to $88' (VIII), 'Yamaha showroom raises SME IPO bids worth 4,700 crores against a 12-crore ask' (I). G
  ✓ [M7]  Three ‹details class='sidenote'› blocks are present: Section II admits risk-off is measurable not just a mood; Section III derives the arithmetic asymmetry of drawdown recovery; Section VI explicitly catalogues the false-positive history of each individual indicator. All three admit where the simple
  ! [M8]  The article spans nine chapters covering five-stage theory, three fall types, recession semantics, M2 transmission, four leading indicators, a sideways-market playbook, a dip-buying process, and full portfolio construction. A non-expert who finished the article would be able to recall several sub-fr
        → Pick the single most teachable insight as the article's spine — candidate: 'Cycle phase predicts which asset class wins; knowing the phase is worth more than any stock pick' — and subordinate all nine chapters to proving that one claim. Currently the article reads as a comprehensive reference rather
  ▸ The article is technically strong: voice is confident, every section is packed with verifiable specifics, three sidenotes honestly flag model limits, and all three widgets pass the delete test. The central weakness is structural — nine chapters prove nine things, which dilutes the editorial discipline the QUALITY.md rulebook requires. A reader finishes knowing more about cycles but cannot easily teach back a single surprising claim, which is the ultimate test. Tightening the spine to one provable thesis and collapsing the survey sections into supporting evidence would lift this from a good ref

! market/evaluating-businesses/index.html  (5 pass, 3 warn, 0 fail · 98.6s)
  ✓ [M1]  Within the first ~200 words of Section I: 'A 25%-ROIC business compounding at 5% top-line growth crushes a 8%-ROIC business compounding at 25% top-line growth, over a long enough horizon. That sentence is not a typo.' The surprising claim is explicit and early.
  ! [M2]  Widget 2 (compounding race) and Widget 3 (scorer) clearly pass the delete test. Widget 1 (quality quadrant) does not: the prose immediately below it names Visa, Microsoft, Coca-Cola, ITC, Tesla, Uber, and describes all four quadrants in full before the widget appears, making the canvas confirmatory 
        → Either strip the prose quadrant descriptions down to one sentence and let the widget carry the proof, or reframe Widget 1 so it reveals something the prose cannot — e.g. show the reader where their dragged stock sits relative to 20+ real data points before the labels are explained.
  ✓ [M3]  The claim that a slow-growing 25%-ROIC business beats a fast-growing 8%-ROIC business is genuinely counter-intuitive to the target audience (retail investors fixated on revenue growth), and it's foregrounded with 'That sentence is not a typo.'
  ✓ [M4]  Widget 1 teaches one concept (the quality quadrant), Widget 2 teaches one concept (ROIC-driven compounding vs headline growth), Widget 3 teaches one concept (the six-point binary filter). The six checklist criteria in Widget 3 are sub-dimensions of a single framework, not independent concepts.
  ! [M5]  The 'you' voice is strong and consistent throughout ('your portfolio has done nothing,' 'run the widget on your candidate stock'). However, no first-person 'I' appears anywhere in the article — the author's opinions ('That math does not work,' 'Stories are how people lose money') are delivered in th
        → Add at least one explicit first-person moment where the author stakes a personal view — e.g. 'I'd size Meta at 6–7% today' or 'I have held Apollo since the 2024 correction for exactly this reason' — to distinguish editorial voice from textbook exposition.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section contains concrete anchors: Section II (Adani ROIC 4–6%, WACC 11–12%, −22% returns), Section V (NVIDIA margins 30%→63%, Tesla margins −2%→~6%), Section VIII (Lenskart Rs 8,500 crore to Rs 70,000 crore in three months, operating margin 1.7%). No section leans on generalities.
  ✓ [M7]  Four explicit 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes: invested capital computation (ROIIC vs ROIC), the formal value-destruction equation (V = NOPAT × (1 − g/ROIC) ÷ (WACC − g)), contribution margins vs operating margins for SaaS, and the INR/USD currency tailwind for Indian investors in US equities. Each adm
  ! [M8]  The article spans 9 sections, 3 widgets, a moat-scoring framework, two valuation metrics, a 7-step workflow, and position-sizing rules. A non-expert is likely to leave with 'check ROIC, margins, moats, six criteria, PE vs EV/EBITDA' — a toolkit summary, not a two-sentence insight. The one-thing ('RO
        → Open Section IX with a single crisp two-sentence synthesis — the exact thing you want the reader to be able to repeat — so the framework sections feel like elaboration of that anchor rather than a list of equal-weight tools.
  ▸ The article is well-executed on specificity (M6), honesty (M7), and interactive proof (Widget 2 is genuinely essential). Its main weaknesses are structural: the article is a framework compendium rather than a single-proof explainer, which dilutes M8 and makes Widget 1 feel confirmatory rather than revelatory. Adding one explicit 'I' voice moment and a crisp closing synthesis would meaningfully close the gap on M5 and M8.

! market/global-portfolio/index.html  (5 pass, 3 warn, 0 fail · 106.7s)
  ✓ [M1]  The bold sentence 'Your Indian equity portfolio, the thing you have poured years of SIPs into, has barely kept pace with global inflation' lands at roughly word 175, backed immediately by the full arithmetic: 12.5% nominal → 10.5% post-tax → 6.5–7% after rupee depreciation.
  ! [M2]  The article contains zero canvas widgets — the script block is commented out and no <canvas> elements appear anywhere. M2 is vacuously satisfied but the format claims to be an interactive explainer.
        → Add at least one interactive widget — e.g. a slider that lets the reader dial in rupee depreciation rate and watch the INR CAGR collapse to a real USD return. That single widget would prove the one-thing more viscerally than three paragraphs of arithmetic.
  ✓ [M3]  The dollar-adjusted math — 12.5% nominal Nifty CAGR becoming ~6.5–7% in USD after tax and rupee erosion, 'barely keeping pace with global inflation' — is counterintuitive to an audience that reads only INR brokerage screens. The Oct 2021–Feb 2025 example (19% Nifty gain, 18% INR erosion, net ~1%) sh
  ! [M4]  No widgets exist to evaluate. Applied to prose structure, the article runs nine sections teaching currency math, US compounding, India-as-trading-market, position sizing, the monopoly thesis, multi-asset allocation, and an action plan — seven distinct concepts bundled into one piece.
        → If widgets are added, keep each one to a single variable. For prose, consider splitting or clearly labelling which section carries the core thesis vs. which sections are supporting arguments, so the 'one thing' stays dominant.
  ✓ [M5]  First-person voice is consistent and specific: 'I will share something from my own portfolio management,' 'I have personally used this approach — buying 17 lots of QQQ puts at an exercise price of 545,' 'I used to be almost 100% in stocks and 0% in anything else. That was a mistake.' The 'you' is ad
  ✓ [M6]  Every section carries named firms (Reliance, SBI, Waymo, CrowdStrike, Novo Nordisk), exact figures (QQQ 15-year CAGR 19.5%, INR/USD at 87.03, 17 lots of puts at 545 strike, $2.8B Netflix breakup fee), and specific date ranges (October 2021–February 2025, September 2026 expiry). Specificity is the ar
  ✓ [M7]  Section III contains a genuine regime-break admission: 'Well, actually 🧐 — currency hedging usually destroys the case for going global' explains that hedging INR/USD forwards merely repays the expected depreciation in premium, leaving the hedged return identical to staying in India — directly underm
  ! [M8]  The thesis is teachable ('Indian equities return ~6–7% USD after tax and currency drag; Nasdaq returns 15–19%; therefore allocate ≥50% internationally') but nine sections of compounding argument — currency math, compounding machine, trading-vs-investment market, position sizing, monopoly thesis, mul
        → Add a single-sentence 'the one thing' callout box near the top, e.g. 'After tax and rupee erosion, your Nifty SIP returns ~6.5% in USD — Nasdaq returns ~17%. That gap is the entire argument.' This anchors every subsequent section to the central proof.
  ▸ The article is substantive, voice-driven, and unusually specific — the numbers, anecdotes, and named positions make it credible in a way most Indian investing content is not. Its structural weakness is twofold: it has no interactive widgets despite living in an interactive-explainer format, and nine sections of wide-ranging argument dilute the single provable thesis that should anchor everything. Adding one slider widget (rupee depreciation rate → USD-adjusted return) and a prominent one-sentence thesis anchor would close both gaps.

! market/india-consumption/index.html  (6 pass, 2 warn, 0 fail · 77.6s)
  ✓ [M1]  "India is a domestic consumption story. That is it. That is the entire thesis. Everything else – Make in India, data centers, defence indigenization, semiconductor fabs – is noise." This appears in the first three paragraphs, well within 200 words.
  ! [M2]  The article contains zero canvas/interactive widgets. The 4-tier customer pyramid, the GDP decomposition, and the Keynesian multiplier are all presented as static prose and a single math block — none are interactive. There is nothing to delete-test.
        → Add at least one interactive widget — the 4-tier consumption pyramid is an obvious candidate, where the reader drags a slider to see how a rate cut shifts disposable income across tiers. The multiplier formula is another: let readers plug in the budget tax-relief number and watch the 5x GDP output p
  ✓ [M3]  The opening contrarian claim — that Make in India, defence indigenization, and government capex are all "noise" and that consumption is the "only" investable theme — is a direct challenge to the prevailing narrative. The systematic dismissal of three of four GDP drivers in the first screen will surp
  ✓ [M4]  No canvas widgets exist. The single math block presents exactly one concept (the Keynesian fiscal multiplier). There are no multi-concept widgets to flag.
  ✓ [M5]  Voice is exceptionally strong throughout: "Let me be blunt with you," "My dad had a kidney stone operation," "I had built positions on Max at around 90-95% profits," and "almost 70-75% of my Indian stocks were finance" give the article a clear first-person author with skin in the game addressing a s
  ✓ [M6]  Every section carries specific numbers: "Asian Paints is down 31.63% from its peak," "Bajaj Finance has 55% share in consumer durable loans," "Zomato: 600 crore of profits with a market cap of 2.3 lakh crore," "Nifty 50 delivered 4x from 1999-2009." The specificity is a genuine strength.
  ✓ [M7]  Two explicit sidenotes appear: Section II's "the 'rising middle class' thesis is mostly a marketing artefact" (correcting the McKinsey/Bain consensus on 300M middle-class size) and Section III's "the demographic dividend is real but front-loaded" (flagging per-capita-productivity as the missing vari
  ! [M8]  The article is 22 minutes long and spans 9 sections covering the one-thing thesis, the 4-tier framework, rate-cut mechanics, six individual sector theses, organized-vs-unorganized transition, and a 5-bucket portfolio allocation. A non-expert finishing this article has a portfolio playbook, not a two
        → Add a closing 2-3 sentence "the one thing" callout box at the end of Section I (or in the final section) that explicitly states the provable thesis in language a non-expert can repeat: e.g., "India's three other GDP drivers are structurally broken; the only compounding engine is the 1.4B people who 
  ▸ The article is a high-conviction, well-sourced investment thesis with genuine author voice and excellent specificity — the sidenotes, personal portfolio disclosures, and concrete stock-level data all exceed the bar. Its main weakness is format mismatch: for an interactive explainer platform, the absence of any canvas widget is a significant gap, and the 4-tier framework in particular is begging for a visual/interactive treatment rather than four prose paragraphs. The one-thing is clear in Section I but gets somewhat buried under nine sections of stock-picking, making it harder for a non-expert

! market/investor-psychology/index.html  (4 pass, 4 warn, 0 fail · 87.3s)
  ✓ [M1]  Within ~130 words: 'The 10% are not running better software. They are running better wetware. The thing standing between you and the top decile is not analytical — it is psychological.' The one-thing is unmistakable and stated early.
  ! [M2]  Widgets 1 and 2 pass cleanly — the utility curve and cascade simulator each demonstrate something the prose cannot. Widget 3 (bias radar) is a self-assessment form: remove it and the bias definitions in the prose below still stand fully; the widget confirms rather than reveals.
        → Either cut Widget 3 or reframe it to prove something — e.g., show how a single bias re-rated over a hypothetical 12-month period would have changed a portfolio outcome, so the interaction reveals a cost rather than just a score.
  ! [M3]  'Your Brain Is the Biggest Risk' and the psychology-over-analytics framing are well-trodden for anyone who has read Kahneman, Thaler, or any trading-psychology book. The SEBI 89%/₹1.1 lakh data adds punch, but the headline claim itself is unlikely to surprise the target reader.
        → Lead with the asymmetry number before naming the topic: open on 'A 10% loss requires a 22.5% gain to feel even — not 10%' and let that be the first thing the reader sees, before the framing of psychology vs analytics.
  ! [M4]  Widget 3 maps six distinct biases — anchoring, confirmation, recency, sunk-cost, overconfidence, FOMO — onto one radar chart simultaneously. Widgets 1 and 2 each teach exactly one concept; Widget 3 teaches six at once.
        → Collapse Widget 3 to one dimension: pick the single bias most likely to cost this reader money (e.g., sunk-cost or anchoring, given the loss-aversion theme) and build a widget that shows its P&L cost concretely rather than a composite score across six.
  ✓ [M5]  'My own hit rate as an investor is about 60%' and 'Every blow-up I have personally watched at close range had the same shape' establish a clear first-person voice, matched throughout by direct second-person address: 'you cut winners early and white-knuckle losers.'
  ✓ [M6]  Every section is dense with specific anchors: SEBI 2023/2024, ₹1.1 lakh average loss, λ ≈ 2.25, Nifty −52% in 2008, Bitcoin $69k → $16k, NVIDIA 2005–2015 returning 0%, 4–5% HML spread, uranium miners 4–6× by 2024. No section retreats to generality.
  ✓ [M7]  Three 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes appear in Sections II, III, and IV, each genuinely qualifying the main model: λ varies by mood and stake size; 'buy the dip' requires four pre-conditions; herding is Bayesian-optimal when your signal is genuinely noisy.
  ! [M8]  Nine chapters covering six named failure modes, a cascade simulator, a bias radar, and a full behavioral OS risks producing a reader who can say 'psychology matters in trading' but cannot compress it to two specific sentences. The final callout helps but arrives after 22 minutes of reading.
        → Add a single 'The one-sentence version' line at the very top — before the TOC — stating the teachable claim precisely, so a reader who skims or gets partway through still leaves with the seed planted: e.g., 'Loss aversion makes a 10% loss feel like a 22% loss in your brain — and that one asymmetry d
  ▸ A technically strong article with genuine voice, exceptional specificity, and two widgets (utility curve, cascade simulator) that earn their place. The main structural risk is scope creep: nine chapters and six named failure modes blunt the one-thing, and Widget 3's six-bias radar violates the one-concept-per-widget rule. The fix is mostly editorial — sharpen the opening surprise and either cut or reconceive Widget 3 — rather than a fundamental rebuild.

! market/macro-first/index.html  (6 pass, 2 warn, 0 fail · 107.7s)
  ✓ [M1]  Paragraph 3 of Section I states explicitly: 'This is the single most important lesson in investing: macro drives everything.' This lands well within the first 200 words, before the stat row.
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 proves duration-sensitivity differences across asset classes (not just asserted in prose); Widget 2 operationalises the leaky transmission chain claim ('how does $1 of QE actually become $1 of stock-price appreciation?'); Widget 3 gives quantitative teeth to 'the relationship is consistent 
  ! [M3]  The opening claim — 'macro drives everything' — is widely held among even semi-sophisticated investors. 'Don't fight the Fed' is a cliché. Compare the repo gold standard: 'a 10% loss requires a 22% gain to break even' is genuinely counterintuitive; 'the Fed matters more than earnings' is not.
        → Lead with a tighter, more counterintuitive version of the thesis — e.g., the specific arithmetic that a 200bp rate move can destroy 40% of a stock's value while the business itself is unchanged — before naming the macro-drives-everything frame.
  ✓ [M4]  Widget 1: rate-sensitivity by asset class (one concept). Widget 2: transmission-chain leakage (one concept). Widget 3: DXY/EM inverse correlation (one concept). Widget 1's two sliders (level + change) add complexity but serve the single concept of duration-driven sensitivity, not a second independen
  ! [M5]  The 'you' is strong throughout ('you will understand,' 'you should check the Fed statement,' 'you do not need a PhD'). But the first-person 'I' is entirely absent from the prose — no 'I think,' 'my view,' 'I've found,' or equivalent. The one blockquote ('The goal is not to trade…') implies a speaker
        → Add two or three first-person anchor sentences — e.g., 'I watch the GLI every Sunday' or 'In my view, the BOJ carry trade is the most underappreciated macro risk for Indian investors' — to give the author a body and distinguish it from a textbook.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section is dense with specifics: '+525bp Fed hikes 2022–23,' 'Nifty fell 17%,' '$15T global equity wealth lost,' 'BOJ raised rates 15bp on August 5 2024,' '₹71,000 crore FII outflows,' 'Berkshire $325B+ cash pile entering 2025.' No section coasts on generality.
  ✓ [M7]  Four explicit 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes are present: the Fed Funds rate vs yield curve shape (Section II); the equity risk premium expanding during stress (Section III); equity duration as analogy not formula (Section III); velocity breaking the M1→GDP link (Section VII).
  ✓ [M8]  The callout box in Section IX distils the thesis to two sentences: 'The macro is upstream of everything… A great business in a bad macro regime underperforms a mediocre business in a good macro regime.' A non-expert could reproduce this framing after reading.
  ▸ This is a substantive, well-sourced article that makes its central thesis clear early and supports it with three widgets that genuinely earn their place. The two weakest points are M3 (the headline claim is familiar rather than surprising to any investor who has heard 'don't fight the Fed') and M5 (the 'you' is strong but the authorial 'I' is entirely missing from the prose, making it read more like authoritative analysis than personal conviction). Both are fixable without restructuring the piece.

! market/margin-of-safety/index.html  (5 pass, 3 warn, 0 fail · 89.2s)
  ✓ [M1]  Paragraph 2 of Section I states explicitly: 'the price at which you buy a stock matters more than which stock you buy. Counterintuitive, true, expensive to ignore.' This lands well inside the first 200 words.
  ! [M2]  Widgets 1, 2, and 4 each prove something the prose alone cannot — DCF lever sensitivity, threshold/return tradeoff, and 200 DMA bounce forward returns. Widget 3 (price vs IV scatter) is the weak link: the prose already states 'The right action 80% of the time is to do nothing' and 'Patience isn't a 
        → Give Widget 3 a unique payoff the prose doesn't deliver first — for example, show how the qualifying-name count collapses nonlinearly as the MOS threshold rises, and frame the widget hint around that surprise rather than restating the patience lesson.
  ! [M3]  'Entry price matters more than stock selection' is Benjamin Graham's margin-of-safety concept, widely cited in retail investing content. For the financially literate reader this article targets — someone already following markets, using brokerage apps, reading about Nvidia — this confirms a familiar
        → Sharpen the hook to a more specific, counterintuitive sub-claim — e.g. 'a 2–3% annual entry edge doubles your 30-year terminal portfolio' — which is both surprising and quantifiable, rather than the general 'when beats what' framing most readers have heard before.
  ✓ [M4]  Each widget isolates one concept: W1 = which DCF lever dominates (terminal value), W2 = tighter threshold → fewer signals → higher average return, W3 = scarcity of qualifying names at any given moment, W4 = 200 DMA bounce forward-return distribution. No widget conflates two teaching goals.
  ✓ [M5]  Voice is unmistakably present throughout: 'It happened to me on HDFC, in fact,' 'Here is how I actually used this on Nvidia,' 'My allocation cap was 10% of portfolio,' and the community-message anecdote in Section III. The author's specific portfolio decisions and opinions appear in every section.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section carries concrete anchors: Section I (HDFC Bank, Nvidia, '17% pullback'), Section V ('December 19, 2024 printed one on the Indian indices'), Section VI ('early-2026 correction: gold −10%, silver −30%, Palantir −30%, Bitcoin −45%'), Section VIII ('8 crore Nifty 50 block, 2.24% in one mon
  ✓ [M7]  Three 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes appear and each admits a genuine model break: terminal-value dominance making the DCF a perpetuity bet (Section II), fat tails invalidating Bollinger's normality assumption (Section III), and the 200 DMA bounce failing in structural bears with negative drift (Secti
  ! [M8]  The article spans 9 sections covering DCF, Bollinger Bands, support/resistance, 200 DMA, tranche rules, buying uncertainty, capital rotation, and an 8-step system. A non-expert friend is more likely to summarize 'there's a whole system involving moving averages and DCFs' than to land the one-thing: 
        → Add a 2–3 sentence plain-English TL;DR at the very end of Section IX — or a callout box — that gives the friend the exact two sentences they need: the one-thing restated in the simplest possible language, stripped of system terminology.
  ▸ The article is well-voiced, concretely specific, and the four widgets are mostly well-motivated — Widgets 1, 2, and 4 in particular do work the prose cannot. The two meaningful weaknesses are that the headline claim won't genuinely surprise a financially literate reader (M3), and the 9-section system scope risks leaving a non-expert unable to distill the core insight rather than the method (M8). Both are fixable without restructuring: a sharper opening claim and a plain-English closing TL;DR would address them.

! market/options-insurance/index.html  (7 pass, 1 warn, 0 fail · 94.0s)
  ✓ [M1]  The one-thing is stated explicitly in the second paragraph of Section I: 'options are insurance contracts. That is the entire concept.' This lands well within the first 200 words.
  ✓ [M2]  Each widget is tightly coupled to a specific argument: Widget 2 proves the insurance floor exists in real dollars; Widget 4 proves theta is non-linear; Widget 5 proves what 'implied vol' means empirically. Removing any one of them would leave the adjacent prose making claims that are asserted rather
  ✓ [M3]  For the target audience — Indian retail investors who associate options with weekly Nifty gambling — the inversion 'the person WITHOUT put options is taking more risk than the person with them' is a genuine surprise, not a confirmation. The opening two sentences set up the wrong picture precisely to
  ! [M4]  Widget 3 (Black-Scholes pricer) simultaneously displays option price, all five Greeks, intrinsic value, and time value decomposition with five independent sliders. That is at least three separable concepts (pricing inputs, Greeks as sensitivities, intrinsic vs. time value) bundled into one canvas.
        → Split Widget 3 into two: one that shows price vs. spot for different vol/time inputs (the five-forces intuition), and a separate Greeks display that activates only after the user has explored pricing. Or at minimum, hide the Greek grid behind a 'Show Greeks' toggle so the reader encounters one idea 
  ✓ [M5]  'I had a $1 million US portfolio sitting on 35% paper profits… So I bought insurance' and 'At the time I bought this insurance I was sitting on 35% gains' anchor the article in a specific first-person position. 'You' appears dozens of times as the direct address throughout all nine sections.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section contains concrete anchors: Section II has 'Strike: 545, Premium paid: ~$45,000, Expiry: September 2026'; Section V has 'NVIDIA at $180 with 40% annual vol: expected one-day standard deviation is $4.54'; Section VII cites 'SEBI's January 2023 study… 89% of individual traders… average lo
  ✓ [M7]  Four distinct 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes appear across Sections II–V, each admitting a real model break: beta mismatch in the put hedge, Black-Scholes assumption violations, the mathematical reason theta is convex, and log-normal vs. normal tails. This is above the minimum threshold and each is su
  ✓ [M8]  The one-thing — 'options are insurance contracts, not gambling' — is restated in the first paragraph, the final paragraph, and the callout in Section VIII. A non-expert who read selectively could reconstruct it in two sentences: 'Options are portfolio insurance — you pay a premium to cap losses. You
  ▸ This is a strong, ship-ready article: the one-thing is stated immediately, every widget earns its place, voice and specificity are consistent throughout, and the 'well, actually' sidenotes are genuinely honest rather than decorative. The single actionable issue is Widget 3, which bundles three separable concepts (pricing inputs, Greeks, intrinsic/time-value decomposition) into one dense canvas — splitting or gating the Greek display would bring it in line with the one-concept-per-widget rule without touching anything else.

! market/position-sizing/index.html  (6 pass, 2 warn, 0 fail · 90.4s)
  ✓ [M1]  Paragraph 1, Section I: 'The difference between an investor who builds lasting wealth and one who blows up has almost nothing to do with which stocks they picked. It has everything to do with **how much money they put into each one**.' The one-thing is unambiguous and lands within the first 50 words
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 makes Kelly's sensitivity to payoff ratio (b) visceral in a way prose cannot; Widget 2 runs parallel-universe Monte Carlo to prove ruin is sizing-driven not edge-driven; Widget 3 renders the growth curve turning negative past Kelly — the 'cliff' is the argument, not decoration. All three fa
  ! [M3]  The first screen opens with the assertion 'how much you bet matters more than what you bet on' — a correct and important point, but one most experienced retail investors have encountered before. There is no single counterintuitive *number* to hook with: the genuinely surprising insight (that betting
        → Pull the zero-crossing concept — 'bet bigger than Kelly and your long-run growth goes negative, even with a real edge' — into the opening paragraph as the sharp quantitative hook, before the argument is made.
  ! [M4]  Widget 2's hint explicitly teaches two separate concepts: (1) ruin probability collapses when you oversize even with an edge, and (2) 'Notice the mean stays high while the median collapses — that is the volatility tax in action.' The volatility tax is a distinct mechanism that gets its own sidenote,
        → Remove the mean/median observation from the widget hint and confine the volatility-tax teaching entirely to the sidenote; let the widget focus solely on the ruin-rate message.
  ✓ [M5]  'My own hit rate is about 60%'; 'The framework I actually use'; 'I tell the community Bandhan Bank could give 3× in three years'; 'You are emotional. You are making panic decisions.' First-person opinion and direct second-person address are sustained across all nine sections.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section carries concrete anchors: 'Bandhan Bank… 3× in three years or drop 40–50%' (II/III); 'Natco Pharma dropped 28%' (V); 'NIFTY 50 corrections 15%+ have returned ~20% CAGR over the next three years' with 2005–2024 date range (VII); 'Princeton-Newport Partners compounded at 19.1% net of fee
  ✓ [M7]  Three sidenotes each admit a clean model break: (1) full Kelly drawdowns are bearable in theory but unbearable in practice — hence fractional Kelly; (2) correlated market crashes make real-world ruin higher than the Monte Carlo widget shows ('treat the widget output as a lower bound'); (3) the cliff
  ✓ [M8]  The callout in Section IX lands the one-thing cleanly: 'How much you invest matters more than what you invest in. Edge alone doesn't compound. Edge plus survival does.' A non-expert can compress the article to: 'Sizing beats picking — there's a mathematically optimal bet size above which your return
  ▸ A well-constructed explainer with strong voice, persistent specificity, and three widgets that earn their place. The main gap is that the first screen opens with an argument rather than a surprise — the genuinely counterintuitive insight (oversizing actively destroys returns, not just caps them) is buried in Section VI when it should be the hook. Widget 2 also tries to teach two things at once, diluting the ruin message with a volatility-tax lesson that belongs only in the sidenote. Fix those two issues and this is a clean ship.

! market/real-returns/index.html  (5 pass, 3 warn, 0 fail · 91.7s)
  ✓ [M1]  The subtitle states it ('Why nominal returns are a lie') and the one-thing is quantified within the first ~160 words: '12.5% nominal → 10.9% post-tax → 6.7% USD → −0.8% real.' The math-block in Section I lands the claim precisely.
  ! [M2]  Widgets 1 and 2 pass the delete test — they show compounding erosion and instrument comparison in ways prose alone cannot. Widget 3 (Starbucks Test) fails it: Section IV already walks through the espresso (₹250 vs 16 AED), the iPhone, the Toyota Camry, and the MBA with specific numbers, so the widge
        → Either cut Widget 3 or reframe it to reveal something the prose doesn't — e.g., show how the PPP gap widens over time as INR depreciates, which would be genuinely interactive rather than a calculator for numbers already given.
  ✓ [M3]  The claim that India's celebrated 12.5% Nifty return collapses to approximately −0.8% real is not common knowledge for the retail investor this article addresses. The blockquote 'The Indian equity market has barely kept pace with global inflation over the last two decades' is a genuine surprise agai
  ! [M4]  Widget 1 has four independent sliders (nominal return, inflation, tax, currency drift) and displays three separate output lines plus three stat cells — it is simultaneously teaching tax drag, inflation erosion, and currency depreciation as distinct mechanics. Widgets 2 and 3 are cleaner.
        → Split Widget 1 into two: one that isolates the tax-and-inflation chain (Fisher equation), and a second that adds the currency layer, so each widget lands a single 'aha' rather than asking the reader to track four moving parts at once.
  ! [M5]  The article uses 'you' pervasively and has a clear, strong point of view. However, the first-person 'I' never appears — the author never says 'I think,' 'I'd argue,' or 'I've found.' QUALITY.md requires both a 'you' being spoken to and an 'I' doing the talking; only one half is present.
        → Add two or three 'I' moments at key inflection points — e.g., 'I ran this math on my own portfolio in 2022 and it changed how I hold currency' — to ground the analysis in personal experience and satisfy the voice requirement.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section anchors claims with specifics: 84/USD and 87/USD in October 2024 and early 2025 (Section II), QQQ 19% CAGR over ten years (Section VI), Budget 2018 and Budget 2024 LTCG history (Section V), Meta/Microsoft/Amazon/Netflix with a ₹561,000 terminal-value calculation (Section VI).
  ✓ [M7]  Six 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes appear across Sections II–VII, each admitting a genuine model break: the Fisher approximation error, compounding vs. additive currency adjustment, the continuous-tax simplification, the small-cap geometric-mean illusion, the AED peg's oil dependency, and the diversif
  ✓ [M8]  The one-thing is drilled in repeatedly and the math-block in Section I ('12.5% → 10.9% → 6.7% → −0.8%') gives a non-expert a literal two-sentence script: 'Your 12.5% Nifty return shrinks to near zero after you pay 12.5% tax, lose 4% to rupee depreciation, and subtract 7% real inflation. You aren't b
  ▸ This is a well-argued, specificity-rich article that earns its length — the one-thing is clear, the sidenotes are honest, and the two core widgets land genuine surprises. The main weaknesses are Widget 3's failure of the delete test (the PPP argument is already proven in prose before the widget appears) and the complete absence of a first-person 'I' voice, which makes the analysis feel authoritative but impersonal. Fix those two issues and this is a strong ship.

✗ market/sector-cycles/index.html  (ERROR: JSONDecodeError: Expecting ',' delimiter: line 6 column 336 (char 2371))

! market/sell-discipline/index.html  (5 pass, 3 warn, 0 fail · 107.4s)
  ! [M1]  The first 200 words establish a broad thesis — 'selling wrong can destroy everything' — but never land a single sharp, surprising, provable claim. The opening is a topic introduction ('everyone talks about what to buy'), not a 'here is the counterintuitive thing I am about to demonstrate.'
        → Lead with the most surprising single finding — e.g., 'a 5% trailing stop on a 28-vol stock fires 80% of the time on noise alone, before any fundamental signal arrives' — and build backward from there. The first sentence should be the surprising claim, not the setup for it.
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 proves the non-linearity of stop-tightness vs. average outcome (the prose can't show a live equity curve); Widget 2 proves that no single exit strategy dominates by making the leaderboard 'flicker' across paths; Widget 3 makes the STCG/LTCG cliff visible at the exact month-12 boundary. Each
  ! [M3]  'Selling is harder than buying' and 'loss aversion makes us hold losers and sell winners' are standard behavioural-finance talking points that most engaged retail investors have already encountered. The scorecard paragraph (the most concrete surprise) arrives well after the first screen.
        → Open with the empirical gut-punch — the SEBI stat that 91% of F&O traders lost money 'while actively managing risk' — or the specific number that tight stops misfire: 'a 5% stop on a 28-vol stock has an 80% chance of firing within a year from noise alone.' That's a first-screen surprise; the psychol
  ✓ [M4]  Widget 1 teaches one concept (stop percentage vs. average outcome), Widget 2 teaches one concept (no strategy dominates across regimes), Widget 3 teaches one concept (the tax cliff at month 12). The multiple sliders in W1 and W3 add dimensionality without splitting the core lesson.
  ✓ [M5]  'Here is a truth that takes years to internalise,' 'print this,' 'build your sell framework,' and the direct live-portfolio confessions ('Tarsons at a 6-7% loss... cut entirely') all carry a clear authorial voice speaking directly to a 'you.' The author's opinion is embedded in the rules, not hidden
  ✓ [M6]  Every section is dense with specifics: HDFC AMC at '100%-plus,' DMART at 'PE of 100-plus,' Aarti Industries down '15% in a single day,' the July 2024 Budget LTCG rate change to '12.5%,' the ₹53,125 exact savings calculation, SEBI's '91% of F&O traders' stat. Generalities are rare and always followed
  ✓ [M7]  Three 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes: Section II admits that fixed-percentage stops ignore volatility and professionals use ATR multiples instead; Section V admits that mean return is the wrong metric and drawdowns matter more for adherence; Section VII explains tax-loss harvesting as a structural edg
  ! [M8]  The article is a nine-chapter, 12-rule playbook covering trailing stops, the 50% rule, MOAT erosion, exit comparison, rotation, tax strategy, and when not to sell. There is no single teachable one-thing — the closest candidate ('whether you sell or not is a question of what you will do with the mone
        → Pick one claim — most defensible candidate is the 50% rule's mathematical payoff, or the tax-cliff dollar figure — and rebuild the article's arc so every chapter is evidence for that one claim rather than an independent lesson. Alternatively, retitle the piece explicitly as a reference guide and add
  ▸ The article is exceptionally well-sourced and specific — every section lands real names, percentages, and rupee figures, and all three widgets pass the delete test cleanly. The primary weakness is structural: it reads as a comprehensive reference playbook rather than an article that proves one surprising thing, which means it fails the M1/M8 pairing most squarely — a non-expert friend would struggle to teach a single memorable claim back, and the first screen does not surprise. The fix is upstream: define the one-thing before writing, not after.

! market/sideways-markets/index.html  (6 pass, 2 warn, 0 fail · 125.5s)
  ! [M1]  The hero subtitle ('how to extract 15-25% from a market that returns 0%') previews the thesis, but the explicit in-body statement — 'a 0% index return does not have to mean a 0% investor return' — arrives at approximately word 207 of the article body, just past the 200-word mark.
        → Move the 'Here is the entire idea of this article in one sentence' paragraph to the very top of Section I, before the contextual setup about Nifty/S&P — that trims ~50 words of preamble and puts the one-thing inside 150 words.
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 makes the range-trading alpha arithmetic interactive (drag cycles to see the gap explode); Widget 2 quantifies covered-call yield vs dividends in real time; Widget 3 runs the rebalancing-premium formula as a live simulation. Each widget carries a claim the prose alone can only assert, not d
  ✓ [M3]  The claim that a flat market can yield 15-25% ('same market, same stocks, completely different outcome') directly contradicts the default retail assumption that sideways = zero. For the target audience of SIP investors watching their portfolio mark time, this is a genuine surprise.
  ✓ [M4]  Widget 1 = range-trade alpha vs buy-hold; Widget 2 = covered-call income yield; Widget 3 = rebalancing premium. Each isolates one mechanism with its own sliders and stat cells, and none bleeds into another's concept.
  ✓ [M5]  First-person opinion is present and specific: 'I am betting on a sideways market with 20% rangebound movement for over 1.5 years. And designing my portfolio accordingly.' Second-person is consistent throughout ('you will outperform 90% of investors', 'you feel like an idiot').
  ✓ [M6]  Every section contains concrete anchors: Nifty 22,000–26,500, US $1 trillion debt repayment, Fed rate trajectory from 5.5% to projected 3.5%, Black-Scholes approximation with actual numbers ($1.39 vs $2.89), Booth & Fama (1992) citation, and rupee amounts ('10 lakhs of dry powder').
  ✓ [M7]  Section VI's sidenote explicitly breaks the covered-call model: 'In a true bull run, the opportunity cost dwarfs the premium.' Section V admits 'Markets break support roughly 20-30% of the time before reverting.' Both are honest admissions that the strategies require regime-matching, not just execut
  ! [M8]  The meta-thesis ('0% index ≠ 0% investor return') is clear and memorable, but the article proves it via three distinct mechanisms — range trading, covered calls, and volatility harvesting — each with its own simulation. A non-expert would likely retain the headline claim but struggle to articulate w
        → Add a single closing sentence in the Section IX callout that maps each strategy to its return contribution ('10-12% from range trading, 8-12% from covered calls, ~1% from rebalancing') so the non-expert friend has a portable two-sentence summary ready.
  ▸ A well-built article with a clear thesis, three widgets that each earn their place, strong first-person voice, and impressive specificity throughout. The two soft spots are the one-thing arriving 7 words past the 200-word body mark (fixable with one paragraph swap) and the three-strategy structure making M8 a stretch — a non-expert can parrot the headline but not easily decompose the math. Neither is a ship-blocker; both are one-edit fixes.

! market/wealth-staircase/index.html  (4 pass, 4 warn, 0 fail · 106.4s)
  ! [M1]  The hero subtitle ('the tiers, ratchets, and tails shown rather than told') names three things, not one. The closest one-thing — 'The real answer is capital' — doesn't land until the fifth paragraph of Section I, well past 200 words from the top of the article body.
        → Move the capital-beats-growth-rate insight to the very first sentence of Section I: e.g. 'A 100% return on ₹1L gives you ₹2L. A 15% return on ₹50L gives you ₹7.5L. Same skill, same time. The only difference is capital.' Then explain why.
  ✓ [M2]  Each widget is directly load-bearing: Widget 1 proves tier-compression (the section says 'Stop reading and play with the simulator'), Widget 2 makes the ratchet's 46% wealth destruction visceral, and Widget 3 shows the outcome fan the prose explicitly refuses to flatten into a single average line.
  ! [M3]  The opening sentence is 'Most people think building wealth is about picking the right stock at the right time' — a familiar setup, not a surprise. The counterintuitive payload ('The real answer is capital') arrives four paragraphs later.
        → Open with the contradiction rather than the setup: 'A 100% return on ₹1L still can't buy a decent used car. A 15% return on ₹50L earns ₹7.5L while you sleep. Your obsession with growth rate is the wrong obsession.' That surprises the reader on the first screen.
  ! [M4]  Widget 1's prose says 'Two things to notice' and the hint directs readers to separately watch tier-crossing time collapse AND the contribution-vs-returns crossover — two conceptually distinct lessons delivered by one widget.
        → Restrict Widget 1's hint and the 'two things to notice' paragraph to the single tier-compression concept; move the contribution-vs-returns crossover observation to a standalone callout box beneath the widget so the widget teaches exactly one idea.
  ✓ [M5]  'I do not run SIPs myself,' 'I personally sit on 20–30% cash,' 'I have seen this happen to thousands of people,' and 'Will an Indian SIP salesman tell you any of this? No.' — the author's presence and opinion are unmistakable throughout.
  ✓ [M6]  Every section names specific entities and numbers: 'HDFC Bank, Kotak, Asian Paints' and '200-day moving average' in IV; '₹2L/month, save 30%, invest ₹60K' in VI; 'LTCG has moved from 10% to 12.5%' and 'March 2020, August 2024' in VII–VIII.
  ✓ [M7]  Five 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes appear across the article; Section VII's explicitly concedes the model breaks ('real markets have fatter tails than normal… each was a 10-sigma event'), and Section VI admits the ratchet is behaviourally irreversible in a way the formula doesn't capture.
  ! [M8]  The article makes five distinct arguments — capital > growth rate; four-stage staircase; lifestyle ratchet; fat-tail sequence risk; tax/options optimisation — and the subtitle advertises 'tiers, ratchets, and tails' as separate selling points. No two-sentence summary covers all five without losing m
        → Choose one governing thesis (e.g. 'The staircase accelerates because capital compounds faster than expertise scales, so your stage determines your strategy more than your skill does') and reframe the other four sections as evidence for it, so the article can be taught back in two sentences.
  ▸ The article is exceptionally specific, genuinely voiced, and all three widgets are load-bearing — a rare combination that makes the interactivity feel earned. The structural weakness is the absence of a single sharp thesis: it reads as a well-crafted five-topic playbook rather than one provocative proof, which undermines M1, M3, and M8 simultaneously. Sharpening the opening to a single counterintuitive claim and subordinating the ratchet, fat-tails, and tax sections to that one claim would make this a very strong piece.

✓ market/what-moves-prices/index.html  (8 pass, 0 warn, 0 fail · 71.6s)
  ✓ [M1]  Hero subtitle states it immediately: 'Price = PE × EPS. Every rally and every crash decomposes into those two numbers — and one of them is almost always lying to you.' The NVDA opener reinforces it within the first 200 words with the '~10× ≈ 1.58 × 6.33' decomposition and the 'locked in vs. on loan'
  ✓ [M2]  Widget 1 makes the difference between 'pure multiple expansion double' and 'pure EPS growth double' tactile — the Bata/Lilly examples in prose would be abstract without it. Widget 2 is the only way to show the asymmetric scatter cloud rather than just asserting asymmetry. Widget 3 makes the decade-b
  ✓ [M3]  The 'reversibility' insight — 'the same market that re-rated the stock from PE 31 to PE 49 can revert it to 31 in a single quarter... wiping out a third of your gain without anything actually changing at the company' — is the genuine surprise. Most retail investors know the P = PE × EPS identity but
  ✓ [M4]  Widget 1 teaches one concept: decompose a return into EPS vs. multiple vs. cross-term. Widget 2 teaches one concept: misses punish harder than beats reward. Widget 3 teaches one concept: the mix of drivers is regime-dependent across decades. No widget conflates its lesson with another.
  ✓ [M5]  'One more piece of advice and then I'll stop' and 'Stories sell SIPs. Math doesn't' are unmistakably authorial. 'You' appears throughout: 'you stop being surprised by markets,' 'you don't own a position — you own a story,' 'you'll find at least one position that doesn't survive the exercise.'
  ✓ [M6]  Every section carries concrete anchors: NVDA $14→$140 with exact EPS figures (§I); Bata India 1250/1250 with PE 83 (§III); NVIDIA Q3 2024 revenue +94% guide +70% (§IV); 1970s PE 18→8 and 2009 S&P PE 13→22 (§V); Sun Microsystems PE 70 in 2000, Zoom –88% 2021–2023 (§VI–VII); Meta late 2022 PE 12, Indi
  ✓ [M7]  Four distinct 'Well, actually 🧐' sidenotes: buybacks inflate EPS through the denominator (§II); the cross-term is not a rounding error at 310pp for NVDA (§III); the whisper number vs. consensus divergence (§IV); the Gordon Growth model's impossibility of perpetual growth above nominal GDP (§VI).
  ✓ [M8]  Section VIII's callout provides the two-sentence version verbatim: 'Every stock you own is a bet on PE expansion, EPS growth, or both. If you don't know which one, you don't own a position — you own a story.' The NVDA anchor in §I gives any non-expert a concrete example to hang the lesson on.
  ▸ This is a high-quality article that passes all eight manual checks cleanly. The one-thing is stated in the hero, the three widgets are each load-bearing, the voice is opinionated and specific throughout (with real ticker names, actual prices, and dated filings), and the teachable insight is crisp enough to repeat in two sentences. The only latent risk is that the article's breadth — eight sections, three widgets, four sidenotes — slightly strains the 'one concept per scroll' principle in §VII, which covers two distinct frameworks (PE-expansion bet vs. EPS-growth bet plus the combined anti-bet)

================================================================
  Articles reviewed: 19
  Articles with any fail: 1
================================================================
